[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
So what if you were able to
rearrange the beliefs that you
were raised with, and actually
gain control of the memories
that you have of your childhood?
Maybe you can even
choose new memories.
Well, joining me is
Doctor Eldon Taylor.
He is the foremost authority
on preconscious learning
and research.
He had a very successful
criminology practice
using hypnosis and subliminal
technology in the late '80s.
And now he is the creator of the
patented InnerTalk technology
that teaches us how
to master the mind.
So, welcome.
>>ELDON TAYLOR: It's,
indeed, my pleasure.
Thank you for inviting me.
Happy to be here today.
>>LISA: It is my
favorite topic, the mind
and how we do the things we do.
And I'm so fascinated
by your background.
If you don't mind talking
a little bit about it.
When you were a
criminologist, what
did you do when you were asking
the questions of the people
that had committed these crimes?
How did you get to
the truth from them?
>>TAYLOR: I'll digress, first.
>>LISA: Please.
>>TAYLOR: The word
is criminalist.
>>LISA: Thank you.
>>TAYLOR: And the difference
is I was in the field.
I spent my days perhaps running
lie detection examinations,
conducting a forensic
hypnosis session,
supervising an investigation.
That was how I spent
my day as opposed
to in the theory of
penology or criminology,
which is a distinction.
And of course, part of my
job was to learn the truth.
>>LISA: Did you work for the
FBI, or the CIA, or everyone?
Or were you independent?
>>TAYLOR: At times I
carried on examinations
for a number of
different agencies.
But I had my own practice.
And with that practice we had
a private investigation agency.
And I had some
really good people,
like Billy Bayshore, who headed
the Nixon detail in '76-- '76
to '78.
So it was a very
successful practice.
And we had a lot
of private clients.
And we did work for
agencies as well.
But, to come back to your
question, since part of my job
was how do I get you
to tell me the truth?
Even though, perhaps, a
device such as a lie detection
examination, a polygraph,
or what we call a PSE,
had been used.
And I were to say
to you, Lisa Garr,
you're not telling me the truth.
I see deception indicated here.
What is it you're
not telling me?
How am I going to get you
to confess a crime that,
for all intent and
purposes, may put you away
for a very, very long time?
>>LISA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: It's
important, therefore,
to understand why we do what we
do, what the motivation can be,
and what it is that
we need in order
to assuage the feelings of
guilt that we might have
as a result of doing
what we did do.
So we have to give you an out.
We have to give
you a way to feel
that you're safe
about what you do.
And all of that takes
on the complexity of how
you learn what you've
learned, why you acted out,
and that part has been, for
all intent and purposes,
the subject of everything I've
wanted to study in my life--
how the mind works.
Why do we do what we do?
How do we get control of it?
And most importantly
today, how do we
manifest the
potential that rests
within every single one of us,
for so much beauty and glory
and pleasure in life?
>>LISA: I see your through
line, through everything,
is your fierce
seeking of the truth.
>>TAYLOR: True.
I'll take that.
I like that.
That's a compliment,
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
>>LISA: It is.
And I love how you
get to it, though.
So, back when we had
these criminals creating
these crimes, you would go
in and use different types
of technologies in order
to have them feel safe,
to give you the truth.
When you did that, you
used, what, subliminals?
Not subliminals, you
used hypnosis, right,
during that time?
>>TAYLOR: We used hypnosis
on a forensic basis
typically with a witness.
You know, I could tell
you lots of case stories
where maybe it wasn't a
witness, it was a victim.
Or it was a perpetrator.
But hypnosis is not
something the courts like.
So if you're going to use
hypnosis, what you use it for
is to gain information,
evidence, evidence that
can be independently verified.
I know you like stories.
And I love to tell stories.
So I'll give you one, OK?
>>LISA: Yes, I'm
sure some great ones.
>>TAYLOR: I'll give
you an example.
I had a defense attorney
and his private investigator
reach out to me and ask me if
I would conduct a lie detection
test and do forensic hypnosis
on a subject in the prison
system, convicted of the
homicide of his mother.
Now he was convicted
through his own admission.
According to him,
he had plead guilty
because they had
made a deal with him.
And the deal was he
wouldn't do hard time.
Well, obviously, this was
a very brutal homicide.
There were a lot of things
that went on in this case that
are questionable
by way of how it
was handled by law enforcement.
Be that as it may, when I
sat with this young man,
I asked him about his
lie detection test, which
he'd taken, and had been
used to get him to plead.
And it turned out that it was
an illegal lie detection test.
It had been administered, a
device using only two needles.
And they're not reliable,
and situational stress
and other things
can complicate that.
So I gave him the test.
He passed the test.
>>LISA: Meaning he
was telling the truth?
>>TAYLOR: He was
telling the truth,
that he had not
killed his mother.
That was the only issue relevant
to the lie detection test.
No other issues involved.
So then we did
forensic hypnosis.
During the hypnosis,
I had him go back
to that evening in
question and describe
everything that had happened.
Well, he had been at a party.
And at the party,
he'd had alcohol,
he'd had some marijuana.
He'd done some drugs.
And he'd left the party.
He was lit.
>>LISA: Not in his right mind.
>>TAYLOR: No.
On his way to his
home, he passed
through a park, a public park.
And there were law
enforcement officers
in the park that just pulled
in as he was coming through.
So he hid.
And he watched them
search the trash in two
or three different
places in the park.
Then he went home, and
there he found his mother.
She'd been beaten to
death, sexually brutalized.
And in his stupor state
he called law enforcement
and then went outside and
sat down on the porch.
Law enforcement arrived.
His fingerprints
were over everything.
He'd handled material
in the scene.
As I say, he was given
this lie detection test.
He plead out on it.
He's in prison.
If there's anything
out of this story that
is going to acquit
him, it is can we
verify the time in the park
that the law enforcement
officers searched that garbage?
When we look at the logs
of the police department,
we were able to identify the
officers that were there,
what time they were there,
how long they were there.
And there was no possible way he
could have committed the crime
and been there to witness that.
The conviction was overturned.
He was released.
And subsequently,
the real perpetrator
was identified and punished.
So what you have, the
forensic aspect of hypnosis
is to gain additional
information.
>>LISA: Knowledge, right.
>>TAYLOR: The victim
says, it was a big gun.
But under hypnosis they're
able to describe everything
about it.
We have so many things that
go on that we're not aware of,
that are stored in
our unconscious, that
are available to us when
we enter into these altered
states.
The subliminal you asked about
wasn't designed for that.
When you have a lie
detection practice,
a percentage of the
individuals you're going to see
are going to come in and
practice a countermeasure.
And when they practice
a countermeasure,
maybe they have a thumb
tack in their shoe.
Or maybe they've been told
tense all your muscles
during the relevant question.
Or whatever else.
Even when you see
the countermeasure,
you're an examiner.
You're restricted to
what your charts say.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: You could
say, look, I don't
want you moving when I
ask you the question.
But there's a limit
to how often you're
going to go on doing that.
That leads to what we
call an inconclusive.
I don't have a
chart that I can say
you're deceptive or
non-deceptive in.
You can also have the
innocent individual
that is just so
terrified that you're
going to point at them
that they bring so
much situational
stress to the scenario
that you can have
an inconclusive.
So the whole idea
behind the subliminal
was I had heard the LA
Police Department had indeed
used a subliminal in preparation
for the '84 Olympics,
in case there were a
terrorist abduction scenario.
>>LISA: Now, explain
the subliminal
so people can know what it is.
>>TAYLOR: OK, well we're talking
about an audio message, set
of messages, that are
masked in such a way
that you consciously
don't recognize them
for what they are.
You don't discern them.
Maybe you catch what sounds
like a voice somewhere,
but it's masked in what we think
of as maybe white noise, which
would be the sound of--
well pink noise is going
to be your furnace,
your air conditioner.
White noise, the ocean.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>TAYLOR: Think of it this way,
a frequency on a blackboard
might be a line.
So I have lines that move.
And these are
different frequencies.
You know that from
your audio/video work.
>>LISA: Right, yes, yes.
>>TAYLOR: If I take a piece of
chalk and I turn it sideways
and I run it down a blackboard,
over it like this, over writing
that's underneath
it, I can cover
the writing that's
underneath it.
Or I might have to
get right up on top
to see if I can discern
what that writing is.
>>TAYLOR: OK, well,
properly done,
an audio subliminal
messages is recoverable.
It's there.
It's not hidden.
>>LISA: It's a different
track, completely.
>>TAYLOR: You know, it
doesn't even necessarily
need to be on a different track.
>>LISA: Oh, really?
>>TAYLOR: In my
book, I tell you how
to make your own subliminal.
>>LISA: Right, right.
>>TAYLOR: And one of the
things that I tell you to do
is take advantage of
the audio illusion.
You can simply take
positive messages.
We all want affirmations
because if we use affirmation,
the evidence is strong that
they can empower us to overcome
all kinds of things,
from addictions
to self imposed limitations.
But the problem
with affirmations
is they come from
the outside in.
So you know that
affirmation, I am good.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>TAYLOR: And
pretty quick, maybe
my sentry, conscious
sentry says, really?
Good at what?
Do you remember when?
So you begin to get this
mitigation coming back
that undermines, undercuts
the power of that affirmation.
So look, let's assume
that you wanted
to create some
positive affirmations.
You want to be more
confident about something.
Myself, years ago, terror over
the idea of public speaking.
Another quick story.
>>LISA: Wow.
Really?
>>TAYLOR: Friend of mine,
University of Utah--
>>LISA: You just got
off a stage here.
So, yeah?
>>TAYLOR: Professor
William Guillory
said to me years ago,
he said, Eldon, I'd
like you to share your
research at the prison
system with my honors class.
I said, well yeah, great.
I'd love to do that.
When are you meeting, and where?
And I was great until
he said Kingsbury Hall.
Well, why are we meeting
at Kingsbury Hall, William?
Well because Black Chemists
of America are in town
and I want them all to be there.
As you know, I'm President of
the Black Chemists of America.
Well that was like some
800 or 900 chemists.
You know, an honors class
is a small group of people.
>>LISA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: So I'm not
meeting with 20 or 30 people
sitting around the chairs.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>TAYLOR: Honestly, I
drove there that day,
Lisa, I got out of my car.
I don't know what
my-- I was so tied up.
I was shaking so much, all over.
I took my coat off, put
my jacket inside the car,
took the sleeves of
my long sleeve shirt,
went around my tire like this.
So it would support a
story I had a flat tire
and couldn't make it.
And I drove away.
And that's the honest truth.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>TAYLOR: As serendipity,
synchronicity,
or what you would have
it, has it maybe a month,
six weeks later, I
had an entertainer
ask me to create something
for performance anxiety.
So I created a program.
And the way we do this, you
choose a mutually exclusive
profile to the
profile that-- say
my profile of absolute
terror about public speaking.
What would it be if I was
just completely confident
about speaking?
So that's what you do.
Everything is all
positive, all right?
So I created the profile,
mixed in this program.
And the way we did it
was, you know, you just
simply use the audio illusion.
You put it on top of the
waves so that you can hear it,
and then you put some
music over the top of that.
The music comes in and you
don't hear words anymore.
It's a function of how
we process information.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>TAYLOR: We can get into
that maybe in a minute.
>>LISA: Right, right.
>>TAYLOR: But to
continue the story,
so I grabbed this program,
this audio program.
And as it was, that
weekend I had reservations
at a cabin in a national park.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: So I raced down
there, got in late, thought,
I'd better play this
program before I ship it
off on Monday to
this entertainer.
So I put it on the
stereo and I sat back.
And I was going through some
notes and I fell asleep.
And I had a dream.
And in the dream--
>>LISA: You created
this program?
>>TAYLOR: --a real
life revivification
of an experience I
had had as a child.
I wanted to be a singer.
I was going to be
a Wayne Newton.
I'd watched, you
know, "Hit Parade."
I'm dating myself.
I would learn the music.
And then I'd sing it
over and over again.
Well I'd learned this
song, "Vaya con Dios."
And I sung it and sung it.
Well we were at a family
reunion up in Wyoming.
And my mother's side of the
family, very white collar.
My father's side,
very blue color.
And they didn't
always get along.
So there's about to
be this disagreement
when my mother puts me out
in the middle of the floor
and says something
like, my son sings.
Well here are these austere
adults in this huge room,
and I'm terrified.
And my voice breaks up.
And, you know, I run out
of the room in tears.
And I can-- you know,
I had the dream.
I sit straight up in bed--
my mother's crossed over
at that point-- and I look
up, thanks, Mom, thanks.
And I know where the fear came
from about public speaking.
I had that terror grip me.
But when we uncover
these kinds of things,
you know, it's kind
of like-- you know,
there's a bogey man
in your bedroom.
And we've all had that.
>>LISA: Yeah, yeah.
>>TAYLOR: And we're too scared
to get out of bed, it's dark.
So we call out, mom and dad
come, throw the light on.
It's how we through our clothes
over the door or the closet,
or over the chair.
>>LISA: Something's
laying on the floor.
>>TAYLOR: Right.
Now, you know, you
have your laugh.
They turn the light off.
They close the
door and walk away,
the bogey man's still there.
But it doesn't
have power over you
anymore because you
know what it was.
Well see, that event, using that
performance anxiety program,
did the same thing for me.
Yeah, it was like, wow, my
own uncovering, you see.
So taking these affirmations,
and using these affirmations,
getting them from
the inside out,
we don't have this conscious
sentry arguing with them.
So what, back to our story--
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>TAYLOR: --what I wanted to do
was minimize situational stress
and encourage you
to tell the truth.
>>LISA: And so this
is what you did
with people who were in prison?
This is what you did with--
>>TAYLOR: Well we began--
we were using it strictly
in the lie detection scenario.
And it worked really well.
I mean, the fact
of the matter is
anyone will tell
you confessions come
in the third hour
of interrogation.
So if you're ever arrested,
you're held in somewhere,
you're going to cool your
heels for a long time
before the heavyweight comes
in and starts the guns.
>>LISA: I see, OK.
>>TAYLOR: But
utilizing the program,
we would have deceptive
indicated charts,
and the people were
confessing right off the bat.
I almost felt like saying,
whoa, wait, hold it.
I'm paid by the hour.
But, fact of the matter
is, it worked so well
that a number of agencies
started to use it.
And then the county
attorney advised us
it probably wasn't a good
idea without informed consent.
But about that time, a friend
of mine at the Utah State Prison
asked me, could we use
it for rehabilitation?
Could it be used to lower
hostility and aggression?
And so we went out to
the Utah State Prison,
and we ran the first of its
kind, double blind study
in a prison system--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>TAYLOR: --with
real tight protocols.
And we employed the technology.
And it was so successful that
the prison system cloned it
throughout their
entire facility.
And other prison
systems adapted it.
In fact, it hasn't
been a month ago
I was doing a radio
interview, and the woman
that was talking to me asked
me about the prison systems.
And she's, you know,
I was at Chowchilla
when we copied it there.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness!
So this was a
subliminal program that
reduced the recidivity
rate of the--
>>TAYLOR: The program was
designed-- see what we did,
we went in the
prison system, again
we used some very sophisticated
psychometrics, including
the MMPI.
>>LISA: What's that?
>>TAYLOR: The Minnesota
Multiphasic Personality
Inventory is the big
one in psychology.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: We used, for any
psychologist out there,
we used the Fowler
lens specifically
adapted for an
incarcerated environment.
But when we came back
with all the data,
we didn't learn anything.
The only thing--
I mean, we knew we
had high scores in self
and social alienation.
So the inmate had
low self esteem.
But he also held you in low
self regard, all of society.
So I'm going to do it
to you before you do it
to me was kind of a
model to think about.
However, when we spoke with
them, I had my own epiphany.
And that was a major
life changer for me.
Because when you sat and talked
with the inmates, what I heard
was repeated stories
that went something like,
ah but for the grace
of God there go you.
I mean, listen, my
daddy was an alcoholic,
my mommy was a prostitute.
The neighbor boy main lined
me when I was eight years old.
You know, usually those stories
were totally exaggerated.
Sometimes they could be true.
But when they were
true, you could
have two siblings come
out of the same home.
One was a physician in
a teaching hospital,
and one's in the prison.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>TAYLOR: So it was a
matter of their choice.
It was how they-- when we
saw this blame function,
because that's what it was.
It was an ability to displace
responsibility through blame.
It's not my fault.
Ah, but for the grace of God.
Society's placed me here.
You know, I deserve better.
When we saw this
blame function, we
decided that the best way to
deal with that, the only way
to deal with that,
was forgiveness.
Now mind you, this is
back in the very early
'80s, before any
of the literature
that we all see today.
So we're going to have the
inmates forgive themselves.
Now there were some
folks that thought about,
what kind of a
crazy idea is that?
>>LISA: Right, absolutely.
>>TAYLOR: But you
know what we did
is we took a solid set
of positive self esteem
affirmations, we locked
them up, with what today we
call the forgiveness set.
I forgive myself, I forgive
all others, I am forgiven.
Suddenly you're
ability to displace
responsibility,
to blame, is gone.
It's just gone.
>>LISA: That simply?
>>TAYLOR: That simply.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>TAYLOR: And if you then begin
to feel good about yourself,
you're positive that
you have abilities,
that you can do things, and
they come from the inside out--
>>LISA: Yes.
>>TAYLOR: --so that you don't
have that conscious sentry
mitigating, undermining him
by continually attacking.
The next thing you
know, you open your eyes
and say, you know, life's great.
I love living.
>>LISA: And you
use this technology
to actually reduce the amount
of repeat offenders, right?
>>TAYLOR: That's right,
it interrupted recidivy.
But it lowered
hostility and aggression
in the prison system.
It increased reflectivity.
And that was the real home run.
And it was so successful
that our first study, it's
all volunteers.
And it was in the youth
offenders facility,
these were first time offenders.
What we had there, with
this group of people,
might have been
different somewhere else.
So we started moving
libraries out, elsewhere.
Well, there were
some inmates that
weren't interested
in forgiveness.
Maybe rehabilitation,
but is there
something like body building?
Can you help me body build?
>>LISA: Right, right.
>>TAYLOR: Can I
build big muscles?
And so what we did,
little by little,
is we began to build additional
titles around this idea.
So you wanted to lose weight?
Fine, here's a
weight lost program.
You want to body build?
Fine, here's a body
building program.
But at the core of
all these issues
is this self esteem and
this forgiveness principal.
I feel so strongly
about that, Lisa.
Seriously, for
four or five years,
big career change
I told you for me.
Because my own
epiphany was, boy, I'm
holding a lot of hostility
and aggression in myself.
I'm blaming a lot of folks.
I'd left home early.
I blame my father for this.
I blame this.
I had a chip on my shoulder.
And I was angry
and I was paranoid.
And that was a
real epiphany to me
to discover that
my mentation wasn't
that much different than theirs.
I had only found a socially
acceptable way to act it out.
>>LISA: Yes, in a different way.
It's the same stories--
>>TAYLOR: So, as I'm
out lecturing on this,
and trying to walk my talk,
and change and practice things,
it became clear to me that
if it's that important,
it ought to be free.
And so 17 years ago I
made it available free.
It's free to this
day on my website.
Your listening audience could
go there and download it today.
And it's a program that's been
used by Fortune 500 executives,
not just inmate
populations, elite athletes.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>TAYLOR: You name the gamut.
>>LISA: What's the name of
that particular program?
>>TAYLOR: "Forgiving
and Letting Go."
And to me, that's
the beginning place.
If you want to take
control of your life,
you want to own
your own franchise,
you can't keep giving away your
power to somebody by blame.
And that's what blame does.
I can't do anything about
it, it's not my fault.
And that stops you from
taking responsibility.
>>LISA: And taking
responsibility
is the biggest key that
you've found, right?
>>TAYLOR: It is a huge one.
But to me,
responsibility is-- I'm
going to be responsible
for everything
that I have the power
to change in my life.
>>LISA: Not necessarily
the past, but from here
going forward?
>>TAYLOR: Oh, yeah, yeah.
You know, what's in the
past is in the past.
But there's lots
of things that we
deal with in life
where we have choices
that we choose not to make.
So let me-- another story.
>>LISA: OK, all right.
Wait, just to wrap that one up.
You did create
forgiveness programs
in the prison systems, which
I think is an incredible--
>>TAYLOR: Correct.
>>LISA: --incredible thing
to say and to have done.
And you impacted the youth,
and probably into generations
that you don't even
know of right now.
So that is a wonderful
thing to say.
That's a--
>>TAYLOR: Thank you.
>>LISA: --a great thing to say.
OK, so continue on.
>>TAYLOR: So, all
right, we're talking
about self responsibility
and taking in all scenarios.
I moved my offices to Las
Vegas, Nevada at a point.
And I'm in Las Vegas,
and for the first time
I go to the post office.
And it's a routine I'm
going to do every day,
go to the post office.
Not a big deal, I've been
doing that for years, but not
in Las Vegas.
Not in this particular
post office on Pecos,
to all my friends that
might still be there.
So I go to the post
office, and it's
an absolutely
hostile environment.
I mean, everybody is grouchy,
nasty, it's hot, it's slow.
The clerks take too much time.
And the clerks are worse
than the customers.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
>>TAYLOR: And by
the time I walk out
of there it's like, I'm
just not going to do this.
I'm going to send my secretary
to do it, which isn't very self
responsible, is it?
So what I decided
I'd do is every day
I would go to the post office.
And instead of going there
and listen to all this,
I'm going to go in and I'm
going to be warm, cheerful.
I'm going to have a
big smile on my face.
I'm going to greet everybody.
I'm going to do my best to
change this environment.
And I'll tell you the truth,
now, the first few days
I did that, I walked
out feeling like I
was a real oaf,
one stupid dummy.
I mean, people in
that post office,
I know there were
some that wanted
to call folks that had white
sacks to put me in, you know?
But I promise you this,
before 30 days had passed,
I could walk into
that post office
and the whole mood had changed.
>>LISA: Really?
>>TAYLOR: I could walk up
to that counter, hi Doc,
how ya doing?
Everything had changed,
and that's how life works.
And that's what I mean by take
responsibility in your own life
for everything that you
have a party, or a part of.
>>LISA: Well that you
can actually effect it,
and that you can
make a difference.
>>TAYLOR: That's right.
>>LISA: And that
you can do that.
So then at what point did you,
then, start to study-- you
were already studying
the mind, really,
through the investigations that
you were doing, and talking
to these inmates, and so forth.
But when did you turn
this into something
that was really useful
for positive affirmations?
Or using the mastery of the
mind to change the past, which
we were talking about earlier?
>>TAYLOR: Well, again,
my epiphany, Lisa,
was when I realized that-- and I
don't say this with any pride--
I listen to a story, and
I thought of an incident
I was in where I was
driving down the highway
and there were two people
in the ditch wrestling.
One of them was a law
enforcement officer.
I threw the brakes on,
got out of the car.
He was arresting a man,
stopping a man, who'd
attempted to commit
a burglary-- well,
he had committed the burglary.
He was fleeing the burglary
from a neighbor's home.
It was an off duty officer.
And the fellow, the perpetrator,
was a pretty fit fellow.
And he had done some damage.
And I was angry.
And when I cuffed this person,
I took the back of his cuffs
and cranked him over like
this, which would kneel you.
And what I don't like to
admit is that it felt good.
And when I recognized
that I had that within me,
I realized that there
wasn't a lot of difference
between the inmate and myself.
>>LISA: Because the
anger took over?
>>TAYLOR: The anger
had just taken over.
It was all about anger.
So, again, I had found a
socially acceptable way
to act out.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>TAYLOR: Sublimation.
So, at that point in my life
I wanted to make a change.
I decided I had to change.
And I realized that
that's maybe why
I was his paranoid
and suspicious of
people, as why nothing
in my life worked.
I mean, my practice worked.
I had fancy new
cars, I had property.
But my personal
life was shambles.
I mean, nothing in my
personal life worked, nothing.
So I decided I needed some help.
And the tools that were
available to me, part of them
my own, from the prison system.
Part of them was a
matter of redressing
how I viewed the world, changing
the context, so that I wasn't
constantly suspicious
of everyone,
or expecting the worst from
everyone, including myself.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>TAYLOR: I happen
to-- you know--
Little story, I happened to
choose a person, a counselor,
who-- I'll never forget this--
it was a big change in my life.
It was very early,
who, on a given day,
said the me, Eldon, you know,
if you're going to change,
you're going to have
to start thinking
that the universe loves you.
That the universe is going
to bring you good things.
That good is in everything.
>>LISA: Did you believe
him in the beginning?
>>TAYLOR: Get out of here.
You know what I've seen?
Don't tell me good's
in everything, okay.
>>LISA: I am sure.
Right, right.
>>TAYLOR: But she
impressed me with the idea
that if I would take every
event that occurred to me,
and I would simply put a
sentence in front of it,
it could change how I
interpreted those events.
>>LISA: What was that?
>>TAYLOR: And that
one sentence was,
I can't wait to see what
good comes from this.
So I said to her, I said, OK.
I will try that.
So I left.
I left her office,
I went to my office.
My office was in a
horseshoe shaped mall.
And in the front, center of
that mall, was a restaurant.
So I had to pull my car
in between the restaurant
and the rest of the mall,
because I'm up here.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: And as I pull in, my
brand new El Dorado Biarritz
with its steel top--
brushed steel top--
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: --out comes this
clunker car, broad sides me.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: I honestly said
to myself, I cannot wait--
>>LISA: You did?
>>TAYLOR: --to see what
good comes from this.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>TAYLOR: And I swung open
the car door, stepped out.
The guy in this car, this
clunker that has run into me,
he's wagging the finger,
accusing me of hiding my car
behind him.
Now, if I hadn't had said
to myself what I did,
kind of set that up--
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>TAYLOR: --you know, the
adrenalin is apt to run in.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>TAYLOR: I could
have got upset.
Things could've taken over.
The body has two budgets,
analogous to the government.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: There's one for
growth and one for defense.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: When we pour
on the adrenaline,
all that cortisol,
what happens is
we shut down the
optimal operation.
We're in defense.
So the ANS, the immune,
and the endocrine,
they don't work the way
they should work, optimally.
>>LISA: They go
into defense mode.
>>TAYLOR: So the
pragmatist in me--
and again I'm coming back,
being left brained here now,
always analyzing everything--
the pragmatist in me
says, you knowk, that was smart.
Because I didn't have all those
chemicals pour into my system.
Instead, what happened is there
were two peace officers coming
out at that moment.
They saw what happened.
I ended up in a car
with one, and we
were roaring about this guy
wagging his finger at me.
And to this day, when
I share that story,
I can't help but
smile and laugh.
I don't think back to my new
car just got smashed, you see.
>>LISA: Interesting,
you think back
to that essence of the story.
>>TAYLOR: That's exactly right.
And that's an example of how we
can change a context and change
everything.
>>LISA: It's interesting
though, that you changed that
through just your
analytical thinking.
You thought you needed
to insert this sentence.
And it actually changed
the chemistry of your body.
You didn't do it
through a subliminal.
>>TAYLOR: No.
>>LISA: You didn't do
it through hypnosis.
>>TAYLOR: No.
>>LISA: You did it through
cognitive thinking.
>>TAYLOR: That's right.
>>LISA: And that that
is also possible.
>>TAYLOR: And not just
possible, it's probable.
You know, Friedrich
Nietzsche, who
I'm not really fond
of because I just
have a different view
of life than he did,
nevertheless, said some
pretty powerful things.
And in his essay, "Twilight,"
he asks all of us, why is it
you don't sit down and
decide what characters
you would like as who you are?
Why don't we sit down and say
I want to be an honest person?
I want to be a
forthright person.
I want to be a jovial person.
Why don't we create the
list of characteristics
that make up who we are?
That's a fair question.
When I went to college, I
was told certain things.
They were axiomatic supposedly,
but of course they're not.
IQ is fixed, that's
false to fact.
We can change IQ today.
And we know that, yeah.
Personality is fixed, ages
four, six, somewhere in there.
That too, is false,
false to fact.
In fact, studies
show today that one
of the best ways you
can improve your life
is by changing your personality.
That's this list
of characteristics,
deciding the ones that you want.
>>LISA: You can change
from a dishonest person
to an honest person.
From an unloving person
to a loving person.
>>TAYLOR: Absolutely, and
that power is within you.
But you have to understand this,
functional magnetic resonance
imaging has confirmed something
that Benjamin Libit showed us
back in the '50s that started
a whole big conversation
in universities
around the world.
Libit watched the
brain have activity
in the unconscious before the
conscious mind did anything.
His classical, cortical evoked
potential, the p300 wave,
and theorized that
the unconscious
was telling the
conscious what to do.
And of course, if that's the
case, then where is free will?
Well, today, functional
magnetic resonance imaging
shows us that a technician
watching your brain
as you make a choice, as you
come to a decision, Lisa,
will know what you're going to
do 6 to 10 seconds before you
know what you're going to do.
>>LISA: By watching the--
>>TAYLOR: Your brain
makes that choice for you.
It's made for you.
You think the conscious
mind is making the decision,
but it's not.
>>LISA: It's the unconscious.
>>TAYLOR: So in a sort of
way, you have to think,
OK, the mind is a bit
like a biocomputer.
I have a friend that's a
neurosurgeon in Hilo, Hawaii,
Doctor John Turner.
He goes by Jack.
Jack and I've had lots of
conversations about this.
And Jack says, Eldon, there
is no such thing as free will.
It's all predetermined.
Everything that's going
to happen is all written,
it's just going to happen.
>>LISA: It's written in
the unconscious mind?
>>TAYLOR: Well, it's written
at least there, isn't it?
If you have free will,
it's due to your ability
to change what's in here,
so that what comes out
here is a choice
of your choosing.
And if you think about what's
in your-- we'll call it
a biocomputer--
we'll use Maxwell--
>>LISA: You're unconscious mind.
>>TAYLOR: --we'd think about
what's in there, how much of it
is negative?
How often have you been
told, no you can't?
Don't do this,
you're too stupid.
You're not old enough,
you're not pretty enough.
You're too fat.
I mean, think about all the
negative that we're all told.
And then listen to
yourself when you
tell yourself
something positive.
>>LISA: It's almost
like that negative
has to get out and get
purged in order to be heard,
and then it goes away
for a little while.
But how do you really
ever actually change it?
>>TAYLOR: --really go away.
>>LISA: I know.
>>TAYLOR: When you say
for a little while,
I mean we have 50,000
thoughts a day.
But those 50,000 thoughts are
just recycling themselves.
And the only way we're
going to change them
is to introduce a new
pattern of thinking,
a new set of thoughts.
So if we decide we
want, for example,
to add some characteristic
to who we are,
we decide that today, going
forward, what characteristic?
I'm going to have good posture.
>>LISA: OK.
>>LISA: How am I going
to get good posture?
Well, I'm going to have to
make the decision, which
is a cognitive event.
I'm going to have to learn
what's involved in posture.
What does good posture mean?
Does that involve sitting
as well as standing?
How will it impact my stride?
I'm going to do a
little bit of homework,
and that's all cognitive.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: Now, let's
assume then that I've
got a script inside my mind.
And that script somehow,
I'm not aware of.
It's like my fear
of public speaking.
It's hidden away.
It's a defense strategy.
And for a defense mechanism to
work, it has to be hidden away.
So I kind of slumped
down, because if I sat up,
the teacher called on me.
And maybe I didn't
know what it was.
And I didn't want
to be embarrassed.
>>LISA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: So we all have these
adaptations that are within us.
Well then I have to
observe my behavior.
And I have to observe
how I talk to myself.
You know, one thing that
I do-- I did it today--
I asked everybody that was
present, 1,000 people or so,
how many of you would like
to make a million dollars?
And of course every hand
goes up in the place.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: All right,
now if you want
to make a million dollars--
I didn't say win it,
make it- you know
that you're going
to have to do
something different.
You're going to
have to go at risk.
Maybe you're going to have
to change your career.
to mortgage your home.
But you're going to
have to do something
different to make a
million dollars, right?
>>LISA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: To begin
with, you're going
to have to believe it's
possible, because if you don't
believe it's possible, it
isn't going to happen, right?
You know, they had
Bill Gates, you
know he's not going to
have a problem saying,
I'm going to make a
million dollars, is he?
>>LISA: He did it yesterday.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, he did
five minutes ago, OK?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>TAYLOR: So what you're going
to do, what I want you to do,
is say to yourself-- and
everybody in your audience can
do this, too-- say to yourself,
slowly and meaningfully--
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: --this year I'm going
to make a million dollars.
I'm going to earn a
million dollars this year.
Say it really seriously
and see how long
it takes before you
get something like,
what are you going
to do, rob a bank?
>>LISA: How?
Right, right.
That's the first thing
that came up when this year
I'm going to make
a million dollars.
Well, how?
I didn't do that last year.
So how would I-- but yeah.
It starts coming in.
>>TAYLOR: And so, that
language coming back
in is telling what
you really believe.
>>LISA: What the
evidence is, yeah.
>>TAYLOR: If you
become mindful--
and that's the big
buzzword right now-- but
if you become mindful, you pay
attention to your thoughts,
without judging
those thoughts you
begin to see what it is
that you truly believe.
Not what you're trying
to tell yourself,
but what's really in your mind.
And as you do that,
then you can begin
to write a counter
statement to that.
So life sucks and then
you die, you know?
I don't get even, I get evener.
Those are mentation
processes that
set up a way we see the world.
>>LISA: That are stuck
in the subconscious mind.
>>TAYLOR: That's right.
And they cycle.
And so they set up
our expectation.
Our expectation
is very powerful.
Let me give you an example.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: Placebo research.
>>LISA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: We know that if I
give you a plain white pill
it's going to be, you
know, 20% effective,
plus or minus, all right?
10% to 20%.
If I put an initial on that
pill, it'll be more effective.
>>LISA: Any initial?
>>TAYLOR: Any initial,
just put an initial.
>>LISA: Really?
>>TAYLOR: If I name the pill,
it's still more effective.
If I turn it into a capsule,
it gets more effective.
>>LISA: Really?
>>TAYLOR: If I
colorize that capsule,
and I even know what color,
it still gets more effective.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>TAYLOR: Now, if I put
that capsule in a fancy box,
it's still more effective.
But you know what?
If I give you the injection, we
can have a placebo work as well
as 80% to 90%, which
is as good as you're
going to get in
pharmacology, OK?
>>LISA: Wow.
>>TAYLOR: What is the difference
in this placebo research
that shows us, we
go from maybe 10%
to maybe 90%, but
your perception?
Your perception is looking
at this gamut of events,
and the plain white
pill is cheap.
But as we moved up the line,
there's a perception of value.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>TAYLOR: And that perception
of value increases what?
The strength of the placebo.
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
>>TAYLOR: And I
respond by my body
healing itself as a
result of that placebo,
in a very real way.
So that's the kind of power
that our beliefs, our mentation,
have over our lives.
>>LISA: And if you were to
tell that person that was just
a placebo, they would
revert all of the healing.
>>TAYLOR: Well, indeed.
You know, there is
a very famous case
of precisely that, where an
individual dying of cancer,
on his last leg, seeks
out a physician who
is in a drug trial.
Begs, basically to get
into that drug trial.
What is there for him to lose?
So the physician admits him
to the hospital on a Friday,
goes away for the
weekend, doesn't
expect he'll still
be alive come Monday.
But he enters the drug trial
and come Monday, he's improving.
And so they continue
the treatment protocol.
Sure enough, he's up and
out of the hospital, healed.
And then the published effects
of the drug trial come out--
>>LISA: It was a placebo.
>>TAYLOR: And we
learn, no, we learn
that the drug was ineffective.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>TAYLOR: And so, bang, he
has a re-onset of the cancer.
But he sees the physician,
who's smart enough
to figure out that the
mind is involved here.
So the physician
says, you know, I've
got a heavier dose of
that in a new trial.
And what we're getting is
just incredible results.
Let me put you on that.
He does.
The patient recovers again,
goes into complete remission.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>TAYLOR: Dances, goes home.
A couple of months later,
major article appears,
and this patient
finds the article.
And the article says
this particular drug
has zero effect, at
any dosage level,
on the treatment of cancer.
And the patient's dead
in just a few days.
>>LISA: This would all
explain why you won the,
was it, the 2005
International Peace Prize
by the International Cultural
Convention in the United States
for your work on teaching
self responsibility.
>>TAYLOR: My
message is about how
you become a better human being.
And that better
human being doesn't
require you to go
out and buy anything.
It doesn't require you
to do a whole lot more
than to sit down,
become centered,
get still with yourself,
and learn who you are.
>>LISA: Back to the
authentic truth, yes.
>>TAYLOR: That's right.
>>LISA: That's exactly
what we talked about.
Well there's, as we know,
Eldon's a great storyteller.
So I want you take
a look at this video
of telling a really
wonderful teaching story.
Take a look.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>TAYLOR: I'm, once again,
going to tell you a story.
Choices, just imagine walking
down the street, New York City.
Those of you who have visited
New York, the Big Apple.
The high-rise condos, boy,
these are million and a half,
$2 million condos before
the real estate boom.
And I'm walking along, kind
of looking at the skyline.
And from a third story
balcony, flower pot
falls, bam, hits me in the head.
Falls to the ground, pot
breaks, flower falls out.
I have some choices.
I'll bet you can all
think of this one.
You sue this guy, he's
got a lot of bucks.
Look at the place he lives in.
And I'll claim concussion.
Get my digital little
portable phone out
and call my attorney right now.
You can do that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>TAYLOR: You know, I
wanted to be John Wayne.
I'm going to take
this broken flower pot
and put it you know where.
But I get to the door,
and I see this guy
is a linebacker for
the Chicago Bears.
Excuse me.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>TAYLOR: I can be metaphysical.
Thank you.
That probably brought
some enlightenment to me.
What else can I do?
What could I do that would turn
the situation to thank you,
gratitude situation?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>TAYLOR: Wow, what if I
were to take that flower,
go over to the corner
florist, have it re-potted,
take the pot back to the owner.
This fell off your
balcony, pot was broke,
wanted to return it
to you re-potted.
Of all the things
I could have done,
which one would have
make me feel the best?
You're right, the last one.
My body would have
been filled with
all those good, warm,
fuzzy chemicals.
I would have had
a moment of, ah.
I had a great laugh looking at
the expression on the person's
face.
That would have been
my best, wouldn't it?
How many of us
would think of that?
Choices.
When we undo blame,
guilt, shame,
we have the ability
to uncover a new self.
We suddenly have a
whole new horizon,
a whole new vista of choices.
And those choices
manifest our free will.
The confusion, anger,
fear disappears.
>>LISA: All right,
so your latest book
is "Choices and Illusions."
You talked a little bit
about that in the video.
Why did you write
this next book?
What does "Choices
and Illusions" mean?
>>TAYLOR: Well, for
most people, they
think they're making
their own choices.
And as you and I have already
covered, you're really not.
>>LISA: It's all based on the
unconscious programming, right?
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, and
the problem, of course,
is we like to tell ourselves
what we want to hear.
>>LISA: Mm hm.
>>TAYLOR: And in that process,
we develop a lot of biases.
And then we internalize
these biases.
Well, let me give you, again,
a real life case, all right?
I do a lot of
research of this kind,
and in a lot of different ways.
And so not long
ago, I'm watching
two polar opposite networks
early in the morning.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: And on one
network we have a poll.
And the poll goes this way.
Should poor taxpayers be forced
to work two jobs in order
to be able to put their
children into private schools,
since our public
schools are failing?
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: On the other
network, the same question
is being asked, but
under this poll.
Should poor taxpayers be
forced to pay higher taxes
to put rich kids
into private schools?
>>LISA: Wow.
>>TAYLOR: Now the question at
hand is about school vouchers.
If I happen to be a of
a very liberal bent,
I'm going to listen to a
media that tells me over
and over what I want to hear.
It reinforces that.
I'm not going to listen to
the media that challenges it.
And vice versa is true.
>>LISA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: So the
first thing is I'm
looking for a confirmation bias.
That confirmation bias
is such that I only
want information that reinforces
what I already believe.
You give me the sound bite, and
I'll take the sound bite out
there and beat up
you know who, who
thinks the opposite
of what I think.
All right?
>>LISA: Yep.
>>TAYLOR: That's the first part.
The second problem is,
this is a real issue.
We're adults, we all vote.
What on earth are we doing not
using our computers to Google,
or going to the
library and finding out
what's a school voucher?
Who uses a school voucher?
Where does the money come from?
How does it impact
public education?
Da, da, da, da.
So instead of making
a conscious decision,
an intelligent decision, we're
in click-whirr mode, you know?
We think of the
mind as operating
with system one and
system two nowadays.
System one is the
automatic mode.
System one is fast.
System modes how 90%
of everything we do
goes off, because system two
requires that I stop, evaluate,
analyze, consider the
ramifications, and so forth.
How much of our thinking is
of that kind of thinking?
>>LISA: Takes too much time.
>>TAYLOR: Takes too
much time is right.
So we go through our
lives on automatic.
And the automatic is the script.
And the script isn't who I am.
It's all the stuff that
I've accumulated, including
the stuff I've taken
out of the media.
So in this little
book, "Self-hypnosis,"
I show you that when you sit
down in front of the television
set--
We've actually conducted
studies to try and get you
to stay in normal,
alpha consciousness.
I give you a cash
reward, Lisa, if you
can stay in the alpha
consciousness five minutes
in front of the television.
But because of the
flicker rate of the TV,
you will go into
an altered state.
A state that, in
a court of law, I
would call a state of
hyper suggestibility,
because the objectified
aspect of hypnosis,
or this other state,
is a brain wave.
And that brain wave cycle is
between eight and 14 cycles
per second.
We call it alpha.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>TAYLOR: So you're in
alpha in front of the TV.
Here comes this message, the
gambu's going to get you.
It's coming to town.
And you're taking it
aboard as though you're
in a hypnotic state.
Well, you take all
of this stuff aboard.
It could be, go ahead,
make my day, you know?
>>LISA: Buy this, buy that.
Take this drug.
>>TAYLOR: Right.
>>LISA: Yeah, it's all there.
And it's interesting.
So it put this
into a theta state,
so that we're in that
suggestible state
to be able to--
>>TAYLOR: Hyper suggestibility.
That's how we define
hypnosis in a court of law.
>>LISA: That's how
you define television.
That is fascinating.
Well, not necessarily
internet television, though,
because it doesn't
have that flicker rate.
>>TAYLOR: Definitely.
Yeah, it's true.
It is true.
And the flicker rate
it's not involved
in internet television.
That's right.
>>LISA: That's great.
All right, so I want you to
take a look at another video
that Eldon has about choices.
Take a look at this one.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>TAYLOR: The story I want
to tell you about right
now is called, "The
Chicken and the Eagle."
And I want you to become
a chicken for a minute,
in your mind.
I want you to
imagine that you are
the star of our chicken story.
You're really an
eagle, but you're
being raised in a chicken yard.
Your peers that guide you.
They're chickens.
They're good chickens.
But they, too, were
raised in a chicken yard.
And you have learned
to dig like a chicken.
You have learned to
make a hole and get down
in it on a hot day.
You've learned to cawk
when somebody lays an egg.
You have become a good chicken.
You have been imprinted, and
that's the word in psychology,
just like a young duckling
raised with chickens,
or a young chicken
raised with ducklings.
You're behaving according
to your environment.
But you're really a
very beautiful eagle
out in this chicken yard.
And one day, along
comes a male eagle.
And flying over the chicken
coop, he sees the female eagle.
And she's down there doing
all these chicken things.
And he circles.
He can't believe
what he's seeing.
And his shadow falls
on the chicken yard.
One of the chickens
lets out the notice.
And they all run into
the chicken house,
because there was an eagle.
Well the eagle hides.
And he watches the
chicken yard for days.
And one day the female
wonders just far enough away
from the house that he's
certain he can intercept her
before she could get back.
So down he swoops.
He cuts off her retreat.
All the other chickens
get into the chicken yard,
into the chicken house.
He has her cornered.
The chickens inside are
all worried about her.
And he says, what are you doing
here in this chicken yard?
And she says, what do you mean?
He says, well you're an eagle!
Look at yourself,
you're an eagle.
You're not a chicken!
Really, she says,
thinking, what's this eagle
got up his sleeve?
What's he going to do to me?
And the eagle says, look,
as an eagle you can soar.
You can fly higher.
You are dominion of the sky.
As an eagle, you don't belong
in a chicken yard, digging.
You belong high, above all of
nature, accepting the wind,
and feeling it lift you,
diving, and feeling the rays.
This just frightens
the female eagle.
But she's cunning.
She is cunning.
So she says to the male eagle,
well, if I'm really an eagle,
then you're not going to
do me any harm, are you?
Of course not, he answers.
I'm not here to hurt you.
I'm here to help you.
Well, if that's the instance,
then you'll get out of my way.
You won't block me if I
wanted to leave, will you?
No, I'm not going to hurt you.
Look, I'll step over here.
And as he steps, she runs
to the chicken house.
Safe inside the chicken house,
she tells all her chicken
friends how she
outsmarted the eagle.
And they all, wow!
Good job!
Now, if you think about
that story for a minute,
and you think about
yourself, were
you raised with any of the
same thing I was raised with?
The negative scripting,
the chicken yard beliefs?
You're not smart enough.
You're not old enough.
You're not good looking enough.
You're too stupid.
You don't try hard enough.
That's not good.
This is evil.
That's bad.
You do understand, then, that if
you have chicken yard beliefs,
those beliefs can block you from
realizing what you might want
in life, and what you're
entitled to, your highest best.
>>LISA: So in "Choices
and Illusions," and we
just saw video that
talked about choice,
and the choices that
we make, and how
we have a higher choice.
But what about the
illusion part of it?
>>TAYLOR: OK, there
are probably a couple
of ways I can look at this.
The first one is if I have a
choice, as Krishnamurti said,
it arises as a
result of confusion.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: Do I do this?
Or do I do that?
Well, that's obviously
a state of confusion.
>>LISA: Mm hm.
>>TAYLOR: If I know,
clearly, what I should do,
there isn't really a choice.
I do clearly what I should do.
Well most of us in our
lifetimes have never
really looked at
our life to say,
what is it that I should
do in all instances that
is the good of my life,
the good of humanity?
I mean, how do I
define my behavior?
>>LISA: We don't
think that far--
>>TAYLOR: We have
not sat down and made
a plan for how we're
going to live our lives.
How am I going to interact
every day in a positive way?
How am I going to help
other people in a positive?
One message, the
bottom line message
in "Choices and Illusions,"
as far as I'm concerned,
comes down to
convolute the model.
If you want to be successful,
think back to John
F Kennedy. "It's not what
my country can do for me,
but what I could
do for me country."
Don't think about
what is and I'm
going to get out of the day?
Think about what it is
you can bring to the day.
What is it that you
can give to the day.
I tell everybody, look, when
you wake up in the morning,
do this simple exercise.
Begin the day by saying, as
soon as you open your eyes,
thank you, thank you, thank you.
That changes your whole mindset.
And put the biggest smile
you can on your face.
Fake it, you know?
Big smile, because the
brain doesn't know you're
faking that smile.
The brain responds to
the facial contortion
by pumping on endorphins, the
body's natural opiate system.
So I then begin to feel good.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>TAYLOR: See?
And that's how I start my day.
Well, again I'm going
to tell a quick story.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: I'll
make it real fast.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: I had a young
woman referred to me
years ago by a psychiatrist who
was on a lot of pharmacology,
a lot of medication,
because she was suicidal.
And she had, on many
occasions, mutilated herself.
So when she came into my
office the first time,
I looked at her
intake sheets and I
saw that her first clinician
was Milton Erickson.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>TAYLOR: Now, to me, Milton
Erickson walks on water.
So I honestly asked
myself, Lisa, what on earth
am I supposed to do with this?
>>LISA: What did he not?
Yeah, yeah.
Ericksonian hypnosis, and
the-- yeah, very classic.
>>TAYLOR: The guy
walks on water, period.
>>LISA: Yes, very,
very brilliant.
>>TAYLOR: You know, I'm sitting
there thinking about this.
And I decided I'm going to do
something entirely different.
I mean, you can call this
perspiration or inspiration,
whichever you want.
But when she came in,
I told her, you know,
we're going to do what's
called brief therapy.
I'm going to only
see you 10 times.
I'm going to see
you over 10 weeks.
You're going to have homework.
And of course, you know
the power or suggestion,
this is absolutely
going to be reversed.
And you will be bah,
bah, bah, bah, bah.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: But here's
your homework.
This was the magic,
not what I was saying.
I want you to get a diary,
a journal, a notebook.
And every day this week, I want
to do a good deed for someone
you don't know.
You just do a good deed.
Go out of your way
to do the good deed.
I don't care what it is.
Maybe it's change and somebody's
short at the cash register.
Maybe it's helping
somebody across the street.
Find a way to do a good deed.
And then, in the evening,
write it in your journal.
I want you to then think
about that good deed,
how it made you feel,
and how the person who
received the good
deed might have felt.
I don't care if they're
anonymous, even, good deeds.
But I want you to put
it in that journal.
And after you've completed
your thinking process,
then close your
eyes, go to sleep.
I want you to go
to sleep on that.
>>LISA: OK.
>>TAYLOR: Week two,
I want you to do two.
Week three, it was three.
We got up to five, but
she didn't always do five.
But here was the difference.
This woman came in with
very low self esteem.
>>LISA: Mm hm.
Mm hm.
>>TAYLOR: She didn't
deserve to live.
I mean, that's the bottom.
That's how she would define it.
She had stories and
reasons for that.
And she truly had a tragic
story in the background.
>>LISA: So she had evidence.
>>TAYLOR: But everybody
deserves to live.
And everybody deserves
to live to their fullest.
But in order for you to
recognize what your worth is,
you often have to do
something for someone else.
In other words, you
can't fill yourself up
by just patting on your back.
But when you begin
to help others,
what you find is that as
you're giving them something,
you're making a difference.
And in making that
difference, your life matters.
And in that process, you
begin to fill yourself
from the inside.
You begin to realize
that you're important,
that you can make
the difference.
And by taking that into
your sleep every night,
you're priming yourself,
you're priming your psychology
to recognize that.
This woman turned
her life around.
>>LISA: She did?
>>TAYLOR: I followed
or for three years.
She was off of all
pharmacology three years out.
She finished her 10 weeks with
me, never cut herself again,
never attempted suicide again.
Because she learned
that she was valuable.
That's how you discover how
your own worth is built.
>>LISA: How it's self value.
And self love, and value.
That is, I think,
the beautiful thing
of where you've come
from, what you've seen,
how you've turned
your own life around.
And then how you teach us to
do it, and teach the masses how
to do it, which is
inspirational to me.
So thank you so
much for being here.
>>TAYLOR: Oh, it's
been my pleasure.
Thank you very much.
>>LISA: I could talk to you and
listen to your stories forever.
But if you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Eldon Taylor, or
share it with your friends,
go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]